# Ceazar Safety Summary
## Description
### The data was obtained from the Health and Safety report filings for injuries and accidents that occurred at Ceazars petrochemical industries limited between January 2020 and June 2022. The data included near miss, first aids, lost times and Medical claims reports. This analytic summary is to illustrate the safety situation across the diferent locations to the stakeholders.
## Data Cleaning
### The age  was modified into a string variable (middle_age, Adult, youth and Old). The incidence cost was formated in currency ($). Any missing values in the dataset were identified and addressed. For numerical variables, missing values were imputed using appropriate methods such as mean, median, or regression imputation.  Outliers were carefully examined and either corrected, removed, or kept based on the nature of the data and the analysis objectives. The columns were filtered to identify inconsistent data types throughout the dataset. Variables with inconsistent data types were converted accordingly, ensuring that they accurately represented the underlying information. Duplicate records were identified and removed from the dataset. This step helped in maintaining the uniqueness and reliability of the data. Careful matching and merging techniques were applied to ensure accurate integration. 
## Data Analysis and Visualization
### Microsoft Excel was adopted to arrange and clean this data while the Pivot Table functionality was adopted to engage different data users. This function was also adopted in developing interactive dashboards comprising pie charts, line graphs, and histograms.    
## Inference
### The data analysis revealed that incidence relating to the male and female genders are at a ratio of 8:1, with men representing 89%, while women represent 11% of the collated cases across all location.   Injuries to the back represented the bulk of the reported incidences followed closely by injuries to the head. Incidences across the two and half year period of review has consistently been highest on Tuesdays than any other day of the week. Middle_age group (25-34 years old) represent the highest risk of injury (29% and 30%) between male and female genders respectively. This was followed closely by the Adult group (35-49 years old). Slips/trips represent the most frequent type of incident at Ceazars petrochemical limited and accounted for about 15% of the incidents reported. Incidents like burns and crush/pinch however accounted for the most incident costs at 15.9 and 15.8% respectively. Day shifts contributed the highest count of incidence at  35%, followed closely by night shift at 34%.  The Montana plant reported the most incidence at 12%, however, the injusry-related incident cost was highest at the Florida plant.                                                            
## CONCLUSION
### From this analysis, middle_age staff are at the highest risk of incidence, this may be due to their characteristic hyperactivity. The Tuesday routine/activity should be reviewed to fully understand the cause of the sustained occuance of incidents. Appropraite PPE that protect the head and the back must be made mandatory to save the company the associated incidence costs. Appropriate investment into signages and appropriate footwear may contribute to the reduction of the major incidence type (slips/trips). The Montana plant should be investigated to ascertain the reason behind the high number of reported incidents. This may be addressed by retraining the staff and overhauling the safety equipments at the Montana plant. With this overview of the safety situation at Ceazar Petrochemical limited, and the recommendations in this report, the rate of incidence can be managed efficiently and proactively.                                                                                                   
